You should always respect the precise prompting style for Midjourney that I will provide next.    
 
Prompts
 
A Prompt is a short text phrase that the Midjourney Bot interprets to produce an image. The Midjourney Bot breaks down the words and phrases in a prompt into smaller pieces, called tokens, that can be compared to its training data and then used to generate an image. A well-crafted prompt can help make unique and exciting images.
Structure
 
Basic Prompts
A basic prompt can be as simple as a single word, phrase or emoji
 
 
Advanced Prompts
More advanced prompts can include one or more image URLs, multiple text phrases, and one or more parameters
 
 
Image Prompts
Image URLs can be added to a prompt to influence the style and content of the finished result. Image URLs always go at the front of a prompt.
 
 
Prompt Text
The text description of what image you want to generate. See below for prompting information and tips. Well-written prompts help generate amazing images.
 
Parameters
Parameters change how an image generates. Parameters can change aspect ratios, models, upscalers, and lots more. Parameters go at the end of the prompt.
 
 
Prompting Notes
Prompt Length
Prompts can be very simple. Single words (or even an emoji!) will produce an image. Very short prompts will rely heavily on Midjourney’s default style, so a more descriptive prompt is better for a unique look. However, super-long prompts aren’t always better. Concentrate on the main concepts you want to create.
 
 
 
Grammar
The Midjourney Bot does not understand grammar, sentence structure, or words like humans. Word choice also matters. More specific synonyms work better in many circumstances. Instead of big, try gigantic, enormous, or immense. Remove words when possible. Fewer words mean each word has a more powerful influence. Use commas, brackets, and hyphens to help organize your thoughts, but know the Midjourney Bot will not reliably interpret them. The Midjourney Bot does not consider capitalization.
 
 
 
 
Focus on What you Want
It is better to describe what you want instead of what you don’t want. If you ask for a party with “no cake,” your image will probably include a cake. If you want to ensure an object is not in the final image, try advance prompting using the --no parameter.
 
 
 
Think About What Details Matter
Anything left unsaid may suprise you. Be as specific or vague as you want, but anything you leave out will be randomized. Being vague is a great way to get variety, but you may not get the specific details you want.
 
Try to be clear about any context or details that are important to you. Think about:
 
Subject: person, animal, character, location, object, etc.
Medium: photo, painting, illustration, sculpture, doodle, tapestry, etc.
Environment: indoors, outdoors, on the moon, in Narnia, underwater, the Emerald City, etc.
Lighting: soft, ambient, overcast, neon, studio lights, etc
Color: vibrant, muted, bright, monochromatic, colorful, black and white, pastel, etc.
Mood: Sedate, calm, raucous, energetic, etc.
Composition: Portrait, headshot, closeup, birds-eye view, etc.
 
 
Use Collective Nouns
Plural words leave a lot to chance. Try specific numbers. "Three cats" is more specific than "cats." Collective nouns also work, “flock of birds” instead of "birds.”
 
 
Basic Parameters
Aspect Ratios
--aspect, or --ar Change the aspect ratio of a generation.
 
Chaos
--chaos <number 0–100> Change how varied the results will be. Higher values produce more unusual and unexpected generations.
 
No
--no Negative prompting, --no plants would try to remove plants from the image.
 
Quality
--quality <.25, .5, 1, or 2>, or --q <.25, .5, 1, or 2> How much rendering quality time you want to spend. The default value is 1. Higher values cost more and lower values cost less.
 
Seed
--seed <integer between 0–4294967295> The Midjourney bot uses a seed number to create a field of visual noise, like television static, as a starting point to generate the initial image grids. Seed numbers are generated randomly for each image but can be specified with the --seed or --sameseed parameter. Using the same seed number and prompt will produce similar ending images.
 
Stop
--stop <integer between 10–100> Use the --stop parameter to finish a Job partway through the process. Stopping a Job at an earlier percentage can create blurrier, less detailed results.
 
Stylize
--stylize <number>, or --s <number> parameter influences how strongly Midjourney's default aesthetic style is applied to Jobs.
 
Uplight
--uplight Use an alternative "light" upscaler when selecting the U buttons. The results are closer to the original grid image. The upscaled image is less detailed and smoother.
 
Upbeta
--upbeta Use an alternative beta upscaler when selecting the U buttons. The results are closer to the original grid image. The upscaled image has significantly fewer added details.
 
Default Values (Model Version 5)
Aspect Ratio	Chaos	Quality	Seed	Stop	Stylize
Default Value
1:1	0	1	Random	100	100
Range
any	0–100	.25 .5, or 1	whole numbers 0–4294967295	10–100	0–1000
Aspect ratios greater than 2:1 are experimental and may produce unpredicatble results.
 
 
Image Weight
--iw Sets image prompt weight relative to text weight. The default value is --iw 0.25.
 
Sameseed
--sameseed Seed values create a single large random noise field applied across all images in the initial grid. When --sameseed is specified, all images in the initial grid use the same starting noise and will produce very similar generated images
 
 
Style and prompting for V5
- It’s tuned to provide a wide diversity of outputs and to be very responsive to your inputs.
- The tradeoff here is that it may be harder to use. Short prompts may not work as well. You should try to write longer, more explicit text about what you want (ie: “cinematic photo with dramatic lighting”)
